JWT documentation (#524)
apache/couchdb-documentation: src/api/server/authn.rst

Note that you don't need to request :ref:`session <api/auth/session>`
to be authenticated by this method if all required HTTP headers are provided.

.. _api/auth/jwt:

JWT Authentication
====================

.. note::

>     To use this authentication method make sure that the

Reviewer: [grammar nit]

```suggestion
    To use this authentication method, make sure that the
```

Author: I don't agree that this is good grammar.

Reviewer: A subordinate clause before a main clause should be followed by a comma.  If you reverse the order, then no comma would be correct.

In either case, not a big deal.

    ``{chttpd_auth, jwt_authentication_handler}`` value in added to the
    list of the active :config:option:`chttpd/authentication_handlers`:

    .. code-block:: ini

        [chttpd]
        authentication_handlers = {chttpd_auth, cookie_authentication_handler}, {chttpd_auth, jwt_authentication_handler}, {chttpd_auth, default_authentication_handler}

> `JWT authentication` enables CouchDB to use externally generated JWT tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`JWT authentication` enables CouchDB to use externally-generated JWT tokens
```

Author: I don't think this should be hyphenated.

> `JWT authentication` enables CouchDB to use externally generated JWT tokens

Reviewer 2: `JWT authentication` needs different formatting, either double-backticks, or perhaps you meant bold/otherwise?

If you meant it to be a [phrase reference](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#hyperlink-targets) then it's incomplete.

Author: I will change this but I note single backticks is used everywhere else earlier in this file, including the 'proxy authentication' section I used as my base.

Reviewer 2: OK, I'll file another PR to fix all of that. Thanks for letting me know.

> ``JWT authentication`` enables CouchDB to use externally generated JWT tokens

Reviewer: [grammar nit]

```suggestion
``JWT authentication`` enables CouchDB to use externally-generated JWT tokens
```

Author: again, this is not conventionally hyphenated, I don't understand the suggestion that it should be.

Reviewer: It is correct to hyphenate here because it is an adjective phrase.  You would not hyphenate when it's used as an adverbial phrase. i.e. "The JWT is externally generated".

> instead of defining users or roles in the _users database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instead of defining users or roles in the ``_users`` database.
```

The JWT authentication handler requires that all JWT tokens are signed by a key that
CouchDB has been configured to trust (there is no support for JWT's "NONE" algorithm).

Additionally, CouchDB can be configured to reject JWT tokens that are missing a

> configurable set of claims (e.g, a CouchDB administrator could insist on the exp claim).

Reviewer: Not sure if this formatting is appropriate, since I'm not overly familiar with JWT

```suggestion
configurable set of claims (e.g, a CouchDB administrator could insist on the ``exp`` claim).
```

All claims presented in a JWT token are validated if presented, regardless of whether they
are required.

> Two new sections of config have been introduced to configure JWT authentication;

Reviewer: [Optional] More future-proof wording?

```suggestion
Two sections of config exist to configure JWT authentication;
```

.. code-block:: ini

    ;[jwt_auth]
    ; List of claims to validate
    ; required_claims =

> The `required_claims` config setting is a comma-separated list of additional mandatory

Reviewer 2: Please use the correct syntax here, for instance:

```
:config:option:`X-Auth-CouchDB-Roles <couch_httpd_auth/x_auth_roles>`
```

This gives you the correct formatting, and also hyperlinks to the config portion of the docs.

Author: I don't follow. your example is for an http request header, whereas this is a section of the config file.

Reviewer 2: Actually, that is for a config section of `[couch_httpd_auth] x_auth_roles` with the text `X-Auth-CouchDB-Roles` as the hyperlink.

Here's a better example: 

```
When CouchDB sees a valid token in a subsequent request, it will
authenticate the user by this token without requesting the password again. By
default, cookies are valid for 10 minutes, but it's :config:option:`adjustable
<couch_httpd_auth/timeout>`. Also it's possible to make cookies
:config:option:`persistent <couch_httpd_auth/allow_persistent_cookies>`.
```

> The `required_claims` config setting is a comma-separate list of additional mandatory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `required_claims` config setting is a comma-separated list of additional mandatory
```

> JWT claims that must be present in any presented JWT token. A ``400 Bad Request`` is sent

Reviewer 2: Please use the `:code 400: Invalid request` syntax so this is correctly formatted and hyperlinked. (or is it really Bad Request? everywhere else in the docs we use Invalid Request.)

Author: Bad Request is the usual text for a 400, yes (c.f, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes#400)

> JWT claims that much be present in any presented JWT token. A 400 Bad Request is sent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JWT claims that must be present in any presented JWT token. A ``400 Bad Request`` is sent
```

Or consider linking to https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.4.1, as some other references to HTTP status codes do.

if any are missing.

> The `alg` claim is mandatory as it used to lookup the correct key for verifying the

Reviewer: Maybe?  Should probably be consistent with "exp" on line 371 above, whichever formatting we choose.
```suggestion
The ``alg`` claim is mandatory as it used to lookup the correct key for verifying the
```

signature.

> The `sub` claim is mandatory and is used as the CouchDB user's name if the JWT token

Reviewer 2: Double quotation marks please.

is valid.

> A private claim called `_couchdb.roles` is optional. If presented, it is a JSON

Reviewer 2: Double quotation marks

array of strings, as is used as the CouchDB user's roles list if the JWT token

> is valid.

Reviewer: Wording of the second sentence seems slightly awkward. Would this work?

```
A private claim called ``_couchdb.roles`` is optional. If present and valid, it is a JSON
array of strings, as is used as the CouchDB user's roles.
```

Author: should be "and is used as the" in the original comment. does that make more sense?

.. code-block:: ini

    ; [jwt_keys]
    ; Configure at least one key here if using the JWT auth handler.
    ; If your JWT tokens do not include a "kid" attribute, use "_default"
    ; as the config key, otherwise use the kid as the config key.
    ; Examples
    ; hmac:_default = aGVsbG8=
    ; hmac:foo = aGVsbG8=
    ; The config values can represent symmetric and asymmetrics keys.
    ; For symmetrics keys, the value is base64 encoded;
    ; hmac:_default = aGVsbG8= # base64-encoded form of "hello"
    ; For asymmetric keys, the value is the PEM encoding of the public
    ; key with newlines replaced with the escape sequence \n.
    ; rsa:foo = -----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----\nMIIBIjAN...IDAQAB\n-----END PUBLIC KEY-----\n
    ; ec:bar = -----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----\nMHYwEAYHK...AzztRs\n-----END PUBLIC KEY-----\n

> The `jwt_key` section lists all the keys that this CouchDB server trusts. You

Reviewer 2: Ideally this would link to the configuration portion of the documentation with the `:config:option` syntax.

> should ensure that all nodes of your cluster has the same list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should ensure that all nodes of your cluster have the same list.
```

> JWT tokens that do not include a `kid` claim will be validated against the

Reviewer 2: Double quotes

> `$alg:_default` key.

Reviewer: Is `$alg` intentional here? (Again, I know nothing about JWTs).  If so, does it belong in the other places `_default` (or other keys) are mentioned?

Author: it is intentional but not as clear as I'd like. the point is that the algorithm (HMAC vs RSA, etc) is part of the identity of the secret.

Reviewer 2: How about appending `(e.g. ``hmac_default`` or ``rsa_default``)`? I might have the syntax wrong, don't know if the colon is part of it or not.

It is mandatory to specify the algorithm associated with every key for security

> reasons (notably presenting a HMAC signed token using a RSA or EC public key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reasons (notably presenting a HMAC-signed token using an RSA or EC public key
```

that the server trusts:

> https://auth0.com/blog/critical-vulnerabilities-in-json-web-token-libraries/).

Reviewer: Suggestion:

```
For security reasons, it is mandatory to specify the algorithm associated with every key.
This prevents accepting a HMAC-signed token using an RSA or EC public key
that the server trusts:
https://auth0.com/blog/critical-vulnerabilities-in-json-web-token-libraries/.

The JWT authentication handler requires that all JWT tokens are signed by a key that
CouchDB has been configured to trust (there is no support for JWT's "NONE" algorithm).

Additionally, CouchDB can be configured to reject JWT tokens that are missing a
configurable set of claims (e.g, a CouchDB administrator could insist on the ``exp`` claim).

All claims presented in a JWT token are validated if presented, regardless of whether they
are required.

Two sections of config exist to configure JWT authentication;

.. code-block:: ini

    ;[jwt_auth]
    ; List of claims to validate
    ; required_claims =

The :config:option:`required_claims <jwt_auth/required_claims>` config
setting is a comma-separated list of additional mandatory JWT claims
that must be present in any presented JWT token. A `:code 400:Bad
Request` is sent if any are missing.

The ``alg`` claim is mandatory as it used to lookup the correct key for verifying the
signature.

The ``sub`` claim is mandatory and is used as the CouchDB user's name if the JWT token
is valid.

A private claim called ``_couchdb.roles`` is optional. If presented,
it is a JSON array of strings, it is used as the CouchDB user's roles

> list as long as the JWT token is valid.

Reviewer: Yes, makes much more sense now.  But I think you accidentally omitted "and" ?

====================

.. note::
    To use this authentication method, make sure that the
    ``{chttpd_auth, jwt_authentication_handler}`` value is added to the
    list of the active :config:option:`chttpd/authentication_handlers`:

    .. code-block:: ini

        [chttpd]
        authentication_handlers = {chttpd_auth, cookie_authentication_handler}, {chttpd_auth, jwt_authentication_handler}, {chttpd_auth, default_authentication_handler}

``JWT authentication`` enables CouchDB to use externally-generated JWT tokens
instead of defining users or roles in the ``_users`` database.

The JWT authentication handler requires that all JWT tokens are signed by a key that
CouchDB has been configured to trust (there is no support for JWT's "NONE" algorithm).

Additionally, CouchDB can be configured to reject JWT tokens that are missing a
configurable set of claims (e.g, a CouchDB administrator could insist on the ``exp``
claim).

All claims presented in a JWT token are validated if presented, regardless of whether they
are required.

Two sections of config exist to configure JWT authentication;

.. code-block:: ini

    ;[jwt_auth]
    ; List of claims to validate
    ; required_claims =

> The :config:option:`required_claims <jwt_auth/required_claims>` config

Reviewer 2: This is great! But now you have to actually define this, otherwise the build fails because the link can't be constructed:

https://ci-couchdb.apache.org/blue/organizations/jenkins/jenkins-cm1%2FCouchDB-Documentation/detail/PR-524/12/pipeline

So I guess either revert this change, or add the config settings to the `src/config/auth.rst` or `misc.rst` file, following the patterns there.

I'd prefer the latter but will +1 the former.
